---
layout:default
title:About ATRAP
---

![](/img/ATRAP.looping.books.gif)

**A**rchitecture **T**ext **R**eaders **A**nonymous **P**halanstery[^1] is an
attempt to (perhaps) read and (hopefully) discuss a selection of texts, in some
sort of logical order, on a regular basis. It has arisen out of a combination
of needs and wants, with the most probable need being the fact that everybody
wants to read more[^2] but nobody wants to read. It was started, and is run by,
Martin Zemlicka after somebody noticed that he[^I] actually likes to read and
asked him[^me] to force them to read.

We usually imagine book clubs as a gathering of midlife-crisis singles too
paranoid for lonely hearts columns, pensioners seeking escapism and
camaraderie, individuals who don't know about the internet and other
types who think that talking about a book is a good way of meeting people. As
great as that sounds, ATRAP is centred around content and progression. That
being said, it is not objective (whatever ‘objective’ might mean), accurate and
does not aim for completion. It is a platform to discover just that little bit
more, and maybe you will find something that will make you read and entire
book. Above all, ATRAP will be a success if it will result in at least one good
thought.

Reding the words of others, especially when the writing is about situations or
areas familiar to us, naturally makes us reflect on the content of the writing,
and by extent about us. The ultimate aim of reading texts related to
architecure (and some) is  to question the design decisions we (and
others)make, and to understand their historical context and future impact. In
essence, to be thoughtful[^3].

ATRAP is aimed at everybody who is capable of reading, but welcomes those who
can't even make that sort of commitment.

### Text seleciton criteria

Experience shows that expecting people to read more than 20 pages per week is
ambitious. Especially architects[^4]. Especially architecture texts[^5].

The selection is based on intuition and democracy, with the aim of chosing a
text that will make for good reading, good discussion, be relevant, make use of
preivous readings and be a lead in for future texts.

### Participating

There is a sign up box to "Subscribe for updates", add your email address and
you will start receiving weekly news of about the next reading group.
Additinally you will be given access ot a Dropbox folder where the reading
material is stored.

Now for the fun part. Show up at ARCHIP on Thursday slightly before 17:45 for a
discussion of the text.

As the point of the group is to discuss the texts, it is recommended that you
read the text. During the session, the main concerns of the discussion will be
not only on the factual matters of the text, but more importantly on the text's
implications and the effect that it might have on desicion making in design.
For example, understanding and subscribing to certain views presented by Le
Corbusier has implications.

### Time and Place

ATRAP meets at [ARCHIP](http://www.archip.eu), the Architectural Institute in
Prague, located at Františka Křížka 1, every Thursday at 17:45. We always
finish before the public lecture starts at 19:00.

<iframe width="425" height="300"
frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0"
src="https://maps.google.com/maps?q=Franti%C5%A1ka+K%C5%99%C3%AD%C5%BEka+1,+Praha,+%C4%8Cesk%C3%A1+republika&amp;hl=en&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;sll=50.097624,14.430563&amp;sspn=0.008768,0.014677&amp;oq=Franti%C5%A1ka+K%C5%99%C3%AD%C5%BEka+1,+p&amp;t=m&amp;hnear=Franti%C5%A1ka+K%C5%99%C3%AD%C5%BEka+362%2F1,+170+00+Praha+7-Hole%C5%A1ovice,+Czech+Republic&amp;hq=&amp;ll=50.098065,14.430542&amp;spn=0.016517,0.036478&amp;z=14&amp;iwloc=A&amp;output=embed"></iframe>

----

[^I]: I.

[^me]: me.

[^1]:Obviously, "phalanstery" was added to the title for lack of finding a
better P word during the conception of this project in order to complete the
acronym.

[^2]:This statement is currently a hypothesis.

[^3]:Thoughtful does not mean controlled, considerate or restrained.

[^4]:[Architects don't read](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/1581156650/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=19450&creativeASIN=1581156650&linkCode=as2&tag=zmlka-21).

[^5]:[It's often bad](http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/03/02/why-dont-we-read-about-architecture/).
