## Principles

This list is not in order. And inconsistent.

Below are some ideas and catch-phrases that set the tone for the contents of
ATRAP. [Maybe](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEsPhTbJhuo).

### Reading is a means to an end

The end being thinking and discussion. This is reading for the sake of
exploring the questions that a text poses, particularly with relation to
designing. We read historical texts, but not just in order to learn history but
to learn what history can reveal and change about the here and now. There
is a justified semblance of chronology to the texts read, but this is not a
history of architecture course.

Civilisation is a story of iteration, the past is relevant and we use it as a
resource.

### A strong preference for primary texts

Primary texts meaning texts that are 0 degrees of separation from the subject
matter. This means that we concentrate on texts written by architects that
explain what they were doing, or texts written by theorists which then went on
the inform what architects were doing. We look at texts that are of the time
when they were relevant, not recapitulations and interpretations of secondary
actors on the work of others.

### A strong aversion to secondary texts

This means any text that is itself already a second layer, reflection, meta or
recollection of something else. The preceding sentence is a terrible and
logically incoherent phrase, as everything is somehow a reaction to what came
before it, but the point is probably clear, especially when combined with the
earlier statement.

In essence, this principle exists to explain why we do not read history books
that attempt to interpret certain actions. Firstly, it is because all history
is somehow already regurgitated and politicised by the person writing it, there
is always an agenda. Secondly, it is because we are not interested in objective
history per se, but in the effects of performing hermeneutics on a text; the
purpose of this reading group is to do acts of interpretation, and hence
reading secondary sources (texts whose content is the result of an act of
interpretation) defeats the purpose.

There is nothing wrong with a book such as Kenneth Frampton's [Modern
Architecture: A Critical
History](http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/0500203954/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1634&creative=6738&creativeASIN=0500203954&linkCode=as2&tag=zmlka-21)
when it is understood that this is a text with an agenda and offers an
original interpretation of history. As we are interested in making our own
interpretation of the primary events, we must refer to the original historical
documents themselves. Frampton's book is a valuable read, but not as a history
textbook, and it could be argued that it is a valuable only after one has
formulated their own interpretation of the history he recalls.

### Linearity

Things are the result of what came before it.

### 20th century

It is not just its status as the not-too-distant-past, the 20th century was
especially fertile for the development of architecture. In aesthetics, theory,
importance, PR, the lot. We might discover that these ‘developments’ are just
reformulation of the same problems and questions that have been with
architecture all along.

### Incompleteness

ATRAP is a semi-casual matter. We do not aim for validity or completeness in what
we read or what we say. What is read is biased selection, what is said is a
work in progress.

